README.md, before:


# 🎤 Automated Transcription Pipeline
**Empowering Users with Open-Source, Low-Code Transcription and Metadata Management**

---

## 📌 Description
An open-source, low-code automated transcription pipeline designed to produce speech-to-text files with metadata indexing and data management capabilities. This pipeline bridges the gap between analog and digital formats, enabling users to transcribe, index, and analyze audio files efficiently.

---

[Integrated PostgreSQL & PgAdmin for enhanced dB integration and management capability.]: #

## 🔧 Tools and Technologies
- **PostgreSQL**: Database management for storing and querying transcription metadata.
- **pgAdmin**: GUI for database administration and visualization.
- **Python**: Scripting for automation, transcription, and data processing.
- **Docker**: Containerization for easy deployment and accessibility.

---

## 📂 Script Overview

| Script                          | Description                                                                                         |
|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `whisper-transcribe.sh`          | Transcribes a single audio file using Whisper CLI (pipeline v1; standalone or building block)        |
| `clean-filenames.sh`             | Cleans audio file names for safety (pipeline v1–v2; standalone or utility)                          |
| `whisper_transcript_log.sh`      | Logs transcription events with status, timestamp, and filename for auditability                     |
| `watch_and_transcribe.py`        | Full pipeline (v3): cleans filenames, batch transcribes, extracts keywords, counts word length, logs, stores in **PostgreSQL**, includes built-in DB repair utility |
| `repair_transcript_db.py`        | **Standalone** on-demand utility to repair or rebuild your transcript DB from existing transcript files (for bulk recovery, troubleshooting, or advanced workflows) |

> **Note:** The original bash scripts (`whisper-transcribe.sh`, `clean-filenames.sh`, `whisper_transcript_log.sh`) represent earlier iterations of this pipeline and are preserved for reference, reproducibility, and modular use.
> The current all-in-one workflow is **`watch_and_transcribe.py`**, while advanced users can run **`repair_transcript_db.py`** to rebuild DB records on demand.

---

## 🚀 Features
- **Automated Transcription**: Uses Whisper and Python to convert audio files into timestamped text.
- **Metadata Indexing**: Stores transcription data in a **PostgreSQL** database, including file size, original filename, word count, keywords, and incorporation status.
- **Query Capability**: Enables users to search, filter, and analyze transcriptions using SQL queries.
- **Data Visualization**: Generates graphs and visualizations (e.g., word count tracking) directly from the database.
- **User-Friendly**: Docker container and GUI in development for non-technical users.

---

## 📊 Database Schema
The PostgreSQL database includes the following columns for each transcription record:
- `file_size`
- `original_filename`
- `word_count`
- `keywords`
- `incorporation_status` (tracked via LibreOffice Calc)

Example query to retrieve transcriptions:
```sql
SELECT * FROM memoir_recordings ORDER BY word_count DESC;
```

---

## 🖼️ Pipeline Diagram
See [pipeline/AutomationPipeline.png](pipeline/AutomationPipeline.png)

---

## 📁 Examples
Included in the [Examples/](Examples/) are sample files to show what the outputs will look like in all formats: `.txt`, `.tsv`, `.vtt`, `.srt`, `json`.
- **JSON**: For integration with REST APIs.
- **SRT/VTT**: Different accessibility captions file formats.
- **TXT**: Regular text file format for import or conversion to any word processing format needed.
- **TSV**: Organizes the transcript into a tabular format for easy editing and continued work in spreadsheet or as a database export.

---

## 🚧 TODO / In Progress
- 🔄 GPT-based summarization using OpenAI API
- 🧠 Integration with Notion API for dynamic content ingestion
- 🗄️ Backup/export to S3

---

## ❗ Current Limitations
- No Notion export or GPT-based summarization yet (coming soon).
- Only `.m4a` audio supported in current workflows.
- All processing and storage is local (no cloud/S3 backup yet).

---

## 💬 Future Goals
- Add voice command trigger.
- Enable speaker diarization.
- Add backup/export to S3.
- Notion/GPT integration.

---

## 🤝 License
Licensed under the GNU General Public License v2.0. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

---

## 👩‍💻 Author
**Cathrin McDougall**
Certified Scrum Master & Product Owner
[Professional Website](https://www.cathrinmcdougall.com/) | [GitHub](https://github.com/catatwork217)

Inspired by a passion for storytelling, automation, and elegant systems thinking.

Commit message:

Update README with Transcribe_GH.py details
Python script explanation and detail.

Signed-off-by: Cathrin McDougall <80551966+catatwork217@users.noreply.github.com>

README.md, after:


# 🎤 Automated Transcription Pipeline
**Empowering Users with Open-Source, Low-Code Transcription and Metadata Management**

---

## 📌 Description
An open-source, low-code automated transcription pipeline designed to produce speech-to-text files with metadata indexing and data management capabilities. This pipeline bridges the gap between analog and digital formats, enabling users to transcribe, index, and analyze audio files efficiently.

---

[Integrated PostgreSQL & PgAdmin for enhanced dB integration and management capability.]: #

## 🔧 Tools and Technologies
- **PostgreSQL**: Database management for storing and querying transcription metadata.
- **pgAdmin**: GUI for database administration and visualization.
- **Python**: Scripting for automation, transcription, and data processing.
- **Docker**: Containerization for easy deployment and accessibility.

---

## 📂 Script Overview

| Script                          | Description                                                                                         |
|----------------------------------|-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------|
| `whisper-transcribe.sh`          | Transcribes a single audio file using Whisper CLI (pipeline v1; standalone or building block)        |
| `clean-filenames.sh`             | Cleans audio file names for safety (pipeline v1–v2; standalone or utility)                          |
| `whisper_transcript_log.sh`      | Logs transcription events with status, timestamp, and filename for auditability                     |
| `watch_and_transcribe.py`        | Full pipeline (v3): cleans filenames, batch transcribes, extracts keywords, counts word length, logs, stores in **PostgreSQL**, includes built-in DB repair utility |
| `repair_transcript_db.py`        | **Standalone** on-demand utility to repair or rebuild your transcript DB from existing transcript files (for bulk recovery, troubleshooting, or advanced workflows) |
| 'Transcribe_GH.py'                  | **Updated for use with postgreSQL & PgAdmin** Python script that enables User to save output to postgreSQL dB that may be managed via CLI or PgAdmin GUI. |

> **Note:** The original bash scripts (`whisper-transcribe.sh`, `clean-filenames.sh`, `whisper_transcript_log.sh`) represent earlier iterations of this pipeline and are preserved for reference, reproducibility, and modular use.
> The current all-in-one workflow is **`watch_and_transcribe.py`**, while advanced users can run **`repair_transcript_db.py`** to rebuild DB records on demand.

---

## 🚀 Features
- **Automated Transcription**: Uses Whisper and Python to convert audio files into timestamped text.
- **Metadata Indexing**: Stores transcription data in a **PostgreSQL** database, including file size, original filename, word count, keywords, and incorporation status.
- **Query Capability**: Enables users to search, filter, and analyze transcriptions using SQL queries.
- **Data Visualization**: Generates graphs and visualizations (e.g., word count tracking) directly from the database.
- **User-Friendly**: Docker container and GUI in development for non-technical users.

---

## 📊 Database Schema
The PostgreSQL database includes the following columns for each transcription record:
- `file_size`
- `original_filename`
- `word_count`
- `keywords`
- `incorporation_status` (tracked via LibreOffice Calc)

Example query to retrieve transcriptions:
```sql
SELECT * FROM memoir_recordings ORDER BY word_count DESC;
```

---

## 🖼️ Pipeline Diagram
See [pipeline/AutomationPipeline.png](pipeline/AutomationPipeline.png)

---

## 📁 Examples
Included in the [Examples/](Examples/) are sample files to show what the outputs will look like in all formats: `.txt`, `.tsv`, `.vtt`, `.srt`, `json`.
- **JSON**: For integration with REST APIs.
- **SRT/VTT**: Different accessibility captions file formats.
- **TXT**: Regular text file format for import or conversion to any word processing format needed.
- **TSV**: Organizes the transcript into a tabular format for easy editing and continued work in spreadsheet or as a database export.

---

## 🚧 TODO / In Progress
- 🔄 GPT-based summarization using OpenAI API
- 🧠 Integration with Notion API for dynamic content ingestion
- 🗄️ Backup/export to S3

---

## ❗ Current Limitations
- No Notion export or GPT-based summarization yet (coming soon).
- Only `.m4a` audio supported in current workflows.
- All processing and storage is local (no cloud/S3 backup yet).

---

## 💬 Future Goals
- Add voice command trigger.
- Enable speaker diarization.
- Add backup/export to S3.
- Notion/GPT integration.

---

## 🤝 License
Licensed under the GNU General Public License v2.0. See [LICENSE](LICENSE).

---

## 👩‍💻 Author
**Cathrin McDougall**
Certified Scrum Master & Product Owner
[Professional Website](https://www.cathrinmcdougall.com/) | [GitHub](https://github.com/catatwork217)

Inspired by a passion for storytelling, automation, and elegant systems thinking.
